a new product is supposed to be exciting
right I get to tell you about all the
cool new features like the massively
upgraded 80w hour battery the second
USBC Port that does 40 GB per second and
can even work with Thunderbolt external
gpus and of course the minor
improvements to everything from buttons
to ergonomics to Specs but the Lix is so
flipping expensive and comes so closely
on the heels of the original Ally that
if I'm anything like you and I've got a
first generation Ally with which I do
I'm looking at this thing going oh my
God you want my money again and for a
10% performance Improvement at 1080p oh
the battery life guys that's the
standout to us this thing manages 14
hours in our endurance battery life test
and 2 hours in our stress test and
somehow it manages to do that while only
being about 11% heavier in fact when I
did my initial impressions of this I had
a hard hard time picking out whether I
was holding the Ally or the Ally X and a
big part of that is that they haven't
changed the ergonomics that much the ABX
y buttons sit a little bit more proud to
the face the d-pad has been improved
with more clear delineation between all
eight positions and the joysticks have a
little bit more resistance on them
although that does come with a benefit
they are now rated for 2 and a half
times the number of rotations compared
to the ones on the original Ally we've
got Hallett triggers again click here
nicer feeling shoulder buttons and a big
Improvement to the back buttons now they
can be actuated really however you want
you can kind of slide across them you
can push down on them really like this
we've got larger air intakes a thicker
internal heat pipe and a third exhaust
grill that together contributed to both
quieter and cooler operation in our
testing and up at the top for I/O we've
got a fingerprint sensing Windows hello
power button a headphone microphone Jack
ah yes the micro SD card slot that led
to so many challenges with the original
Ally although to asus's credit they have
finally addressed that with the
community volume rocker and of course
that second USBC Port that I was really
happy to see and normally it doesn't
matter but every once in a while I run
into a situation where I'm like I wish
the AL had a second USBC Port okay I'm
on a plane I got a portable monitor and
I realized I forgot to bring a dongle
that supports pass through charging so I
had no way to charge the Ally and also
output to my portable monitor no one
seems to feel bad for me okay it's a
champagne problem but a problem
nonetheless and one that Aus has
addressed got a 65 W charger which is
nice to see included at all but doesn't
support the maximum charging speed of
the Alx which is 100 watts and that
you're definitely going to want if
you're ever in a hurry when you're
charging because an 80w hour battery is
flipping big ah yes warranty information
form awkward
there now I'm done with accessories and
I can get back to what matters the Ally
oh okay no I'm sorry there is one two
more accessories there's no kickstand on
the Alx itself but Asus does include
little cardboard stands and you get two
just in case you lose one apparently
these were included with the original I
never noticed maybe because they aren't
very good you can't even adjust the
angle thanks Asus and thanks our sponsor
thanks to charge for sponsoring this
video check out their shiek 140 your new
on the-go power up buddy for your phone
laptop and more it's got a huge 20,000
Milah capacity 140 W dual port or 100 WT
single port outputs and it's Compact and
Airline safe with a smart display and
long lasting Samsung batteries you can
keep your devices Juiced up anywhere
grab a Shar geek 140 using the link in
the description you know I was expecting
the display to be the first thing that
stood out to me but as I launch Steam
Big Picture it's actually the speakers
they've got a much Fuller sound than the
original Ally and as one of those
monsters who does the vast majority of
my handheld gaming with speakers rather
than headphones I'm sorry sorry sorry
everyone that makes a pretty big
difference to me I'm actually going to
go crab Rave before I even fire up a
game here operating windows on a
handheld gaming PC is always going to be
awkward that's something that the steam
deck just does so much better than any
Windows handheld can do at this time but
one of the reasons that I daily drive an
ally instead of a steamjack OLED is that
game compati ility is damn near perfect
and that's only going to get better with
the improved Hardware in this new
iteration they still don't compare to
something like a Macbook but they're
definitely better than the old one okay
let's uh maybe we'll go Forza you may
not proceed without being signed into a
profile you may not proceed without
being well what am I allowed to do you
may not proceed without there's no
option to close the game God modern
gaming sucks you may not proceed without
being signed into a profile the device
is upgraded it's now available with up
to a 1 TB SSD out of the box and
supports longer 80 mm sticks so that you
can put in up to an 8 tbte drive it has
24 gigs of RAM instead of 16 gigs of RAM
this time around and it even runs at a
higher 7500 megat transfers per second
which when you're using onboard Graphics
which uses your system Ram can make a
significant difference to system
performance in fact at 1080p we saw an
approximately 10% uplift in fps in games
however on a device like this you often
times wouldn't be running at 1080p you'd
be running at 720 in order to get the
best performance and at 720 we found
that we ran into other system
bottlenecks before that increased memory
clock speed really made a difference so
just like the original Ally it clocks
down from 30 wats to 25 watts when
you're away from the wall even in its
turbo operating mode but to take
advantage of the bigger battery in the
lower performance modes it goes up to 13
and 17 rather than 10 and 15 which does
result in a measurable performance
Improvement while still maintaining
better battery life than the original
Ally there's other quality of life
improvements it's easier to access the
SSD for upgrades it runs quieter and the
display now gets dimmer if you're the
kind of person who games in the dark and
doesn't want to melt your eyes out of
their freaking sockets but none of those
things are big enough to overcome two
major obstacles that are facing the Ally
x one is that the original Ally offers a
lot of the same experience and two it
does so at a much lower price the Ally X
is coming into a Marketplace that is
absolutely flush with competition from
the liks of valve Zotac iono uh Lenovo
there's so many players in this space
now it might still be among if not the
best handheld gaming PCs but
$800 before I even put a decent sized
SSD in it good Lord what's a one tby
steam deck OLED
$650 and yeah this has advantages but so
does the steam deck OLED I mean that
screen so nice and making things even
more Awkward we're already starting to
see rumors of what the performance of
rdna 3.5 mobile Graphics are going to be
now the word on the street and I didn't
hear this from Asus is that amd's
upcoming STX Point processors that
feature those Graphics are going to be
so expensive that this would have been
more like $900 but I've got to wonder
guys with how much more performance it
would offer would that be more
justifiable as an upgrade as it is now
if I'm looking to buy a handheld gaming
PC and I have a functionally unlimited
budget this is going to be a strong if
not the contender but if I'm upgrading
from something older I don't know if it
has enough on offer I know the battery
life damn it the battery life is
incredible it's so much better than it
should be on paper like it's double the
size and yet it manages three times the
real world performance that and I have
one of the OG allies that has the dimmer
400 nnit screen as it is now the later
model ones seem to use the same 500 plus
knit screen I think only you guys can
judge is this thing worth the increase I
mean yeah sure you get rid of the
proprietary XG mobile external GPU
connector that cost so much but you add
a thunderbolt connector that you're
going to need an enclosure for for your
GPU that costs so much it's a really
complicated story what's not complicated
is subscribing to Short Circuit make
sure you do it